(bright pop music)
Another sort of really important thing
to understand is this idea of reference versus value.
So, let's go into our objects HTML.
I'm just gonna console.log out the deleting here.
Let's just do a simple example,
if I make a let variable of name one and I set that to Wes
and I create another variable
and I set that to Wes as well,
if I check if two of the things are equal to each other,
so name one is equal to name two.
If we console.log that,
we're obviously going to get true, right?
Now, if I change name one and I set that to Scott
and I were to run that again, we obviously get false,
like no surprise there.
Now, the question is, if I set name one to equal name two,
so what are we doing there?
Update name one to be what is name two.
Now, if I console.log again,
it's gonna be true and if we take a look at
what is in either variable, we'll see that it is Wes.
Name one is equal to name two.
Now, if I take name two and set it to name one,
that's just the same thing, right?
We still have name one and name two equal to Wes.
Now, the question is, if I change name two,
so name two is equal to Westopher,
we have name two,
is name one gonna be Westopher as well?
No, because we haven't updated that one.
So, a couple things to note
with this sort of exercise here.
First, is when we are comparing values,
the triple equals makes us check the type is string
and the value is exactly the same thing.
The second thing I wanna say is,
when we set one string variable to be another,
the value is copied from one to another, meaning that
when I take name one and I set it to name two,
it just takes the value of whatever is in name two
and copies and pastes the value in to name one.
Okay, so meaning that when I update one of the variables,
the other one that has been pointing to it,
does not update itself.
You may be saying like, duh,
obviously that's how variables work.
Well, smile let me show you now how that works for objects
because that is with string.
So, we'll make a person one variable
and we'll say the first is equal to Wes
and the last is equal to Bos.
Now, let's simply just dupe that right over
and the only thing we wanna change is person two.
So, my question now is, if I say person one
is equal to person two, why do we get false?
Well, you may say like,
"well it's the exact same object, right?"
It's an object for it's same contents inside of it
so why am I getting false when I'm checking them?
And that is because when you are comparing objects,
it is done by reference to the object itself
not the values inside of it.
This means that if they
are two totally separate objects,
they simply have the same contents by chance.
So, this is one object.
This is another object,
they are not the same thing
even though the contents inside of them
are the same thing, they are not the same actual object.
So, that is different than the contents of a string
because the string can only have a value
whereas an object and as we're going to learn arrays,
they can have multiple things inside of them
whether they are property and values
or whether they are just straight-up items.
Now, next thing we need to know about objects
is that if I make a new person
so it's like a const person three is equal to person one.
Now, if i take a look at person three,
we see Wes Bos.
Now, if I go ahead and update person three's name,
so I'll say first is equal to Larry,
what are we gonna get
if we console.log person three.name?
You can get it.
It is, oh sorry, it's not name it's first.
We're gonna get Larry
but what if I console.log person one.name?
Well, person one is Wes Bos
so person one.first should be Wes, right?
Ready and line 72, Larry.
What?
Person one Larry, person two Wes Bos,
person three Larry.
What's going on here?
I just updated person three but for some reason,
person one was also updated to be Larry as well.
If I change person three.last to Cool,
person three is obviously cool but what about person one?
What the heck!
Why is person one being updated?
This is a fundamental concept of JavaScript
that will come and bite you in the butt,
if you don't understand it.
And the reason that this happens is that,
when objects and arrays are copied by reference,
this means that we simply when we did this right here,
we're not taking a copy of it.
I shouldn't even say copy.
We are simply creating a variable that references
or points to the original variable
instead of making a copy of it.
Now, that can lead to some unexpected bugs down the road
because you might simply think that
you're creating a copy of it
and then go ahead and modifying it but you're not.
Person three was never its own object.
It was just pointing at the original object
and the same thing works with arrays,
the same thing works with Maps and Sets as well
which we will learn.
So, what's a developer to do
if you want to take a copy of something like this?
Well, there's a couple different ways
that you can sort of copy an object in it
and probably the easiest way to copy something
is via something called a spread.
Now, a spread is the three dot operator
and it's used for taking every single item in an object
in spreading it into the new object.
So, instead of doing this, person three equals person one
I'll go ahead and comment that out.
We can say const person three is equal to a new object
so object literal ... person one.
And what that will do is if we open this up
and we take a look at person three,
it will take every single item that is in an object
and spread it into so you can sort of think of
having a knife here and it says all right,
we have the first spread that in, take a copy
and put it into this object.
Then we have the last, take a copy
and put it into this object
and that is a way to take a copy of an object.
There is another way to do that as well that you might see
it's not as popular anymore since we have spread now,
but previously a lot of people would do something like this
and they would do object.assign.
You start with an empty object
and you fold in the other object into it.
So, you probably won't see that all that much
but if you do see it, just know that
that is the way to take a copy of an object
just like the spread operator that we have here.
So, now if I go to person three
and I change the first name to Larry,
person3.first is Larry.
Now is person one is still Wes, right?
Because this did a copy of the object
and not a reference like we did it just there.
Now take it even a step further
this only goes one level deep meaning that
if we go up to person one
and let's add a clothing object
and we'll say shirts is equal to 10
and pants is equal to two.
Now, if I take a copy of that and look at person three,
you see we've got Larry, Bos.
Our clothing is 10 and two.
If I go to person3.clothing.shirts
and I change that to a 100,
you'll see that our clothing shirts is equal to a 100
but if I look at person one as well,
we've got the same problem.
Person one's shirts were also updated
even though I just told you that you can take a copy
of an object with this spread.
So, what we need to sort of take away
from that little lesson is that
the spread operator in the object.assign operator
either way those do what are called shallow copies,
meaning that they will only ever go one level deep
and take a copy of it.
If you do want to do a deep clone of an object,
that's what is referred to or deep copy
or a deep clone of all of the the properties.
There are a number of different ways to do it.
The most popular way is likely to use
what's called the utility library.
I like to use one called lodash.
Let's look that up right now.
So, lodash is a library that you can include
into your script and it has a bevy of methods
that are used for working with objects and arrays
and one of them is for doing copies of objects.
So, we'll go to the documentation here
and we'll just do like a clone.
Here we go.
Creates a shallow clone of a value
so this is pretty simple, this is all it does for us.
So, if we use underscore,
that's the variable that it puts itself into
and then all of the handy lodash methods live
in the underscore and we can simply just say dot clone.
Now, that will just do a high-level clone
like we've done right here.
So, there's not much value in that.
However, you can use this one called clone deep
and clone deep will do any nested objects.
It will also take a copy of them for us.
So, how do you use that?
Well, I like to use this thing called unpackage UNPKG
and we can just click on one of their examples here
and I believe we can just go to unpackage.com/lodash
and that will load in the latest lodash
so we can just take this URL here,
or go up right above the script
that we need because when you are loading JavaScript
that is dependent on it, you need to load that first.
So, do a script source and load to that.
Now, if you just type in underscore dot into your browser
you'll see that all of the lodash,
the values are available to us.
I'm gonna show you when we look at modules,
how you can actually load in just the ones you need
coz it's unlikely that you would need all of these
but just for simplicity sake I'm loading
the whole library in here now.
And then what we could do down here
where we were taking a copy of it,
we'll come out that out
and we'll say const person3 = _.clone deep
and then you pass it person one.
Now, if we take a look at person one,
the clothing should still be 10, good
and person three,
their clothing should now be a 100 shirts.
Beautiful, so that lodash is...
I don't reach for it all the time
because most of the stuff that I do
can just be done with JavaScript
but when you do reach for harder things
like doing a deep clone, then you can reach for a lodash
and they've got some really nice methods
for working with that as well as
for working with arrays as well.
This spread operator dot dot dot is also helpful
for working with merging objects.
So, I'm going to just grab some variables
that I've got right here.
I'm gonna paste them in.
So, I've got this meat inventory bacon and sausage
and veggie inventory which has two properties on it.
Now, I wanna merge those two objects together
and the easiest way to do that
is to just make a new variable
and create a new object literal
and it will have dot dot dot meat inventory
and then dot dot dot veggie inventory.
And all I did there is I just spread in one object
and spread in a second object which is super handy
because you can spread in as many objects as you want
and that will then give us a new inventory property
with absolutely everything in it.
You can also put these on their own line
and add your own values in.
So, if I were to say oysters, 10.
You see the oysters have been added to it.
So, you can mix and match the spreading,
the only thing that you really need to know about this
is that if there are duplicates,
like oyster is a good one.
It could be an oyster mushroom
but it could also be an oyster that you get from the seas.
Oyster is 10
and then a veggie inventory, oyster 15.
Which one will win out?
Let's see.
It is 15 and why does that happen?
Well, because veggie inventory comes after,
so the order that which you spread them does matter here.
Similarly, if I were to type in bacon of 10,
that is going to overwrite the meat inventory
that we have here.
So, just know about that.
I really like the spread operator.
It can also be used for arrays
and we're gonna be learning all about
that once we hit arrays.
Last thing I would really hammer home here is this idea
of passing in via reference versus copy
also applies to functions.
So, if I had a function called do stuff
and that takes in a argument called data
and inside of that we were to change that data
to be something else.
So, all this function does is it takes an argument
and changes that data for whatever reason.
Now, if we were to then run
that function called do stuff
and let's pass it our name one variable,
which was up here.
We had initially set to Wes.
If I take a look at that, here let's go inside here
and console.log the data.
That's something else, right?
There's a variable called data
and it's equal to something else.
But if I were to type name one,
you see that it still is Wes, meaning that
when we pass in this variable, it only passes in the value
of Wes and it doesn't actually reference
to the external variable.
Which is good.
Now, let me do that again with an object ,
so function do stuff two,
that takes in data
and that will say data about tomatoes is equal
to a ton of tomatoes
and we'll console.log the data.
And then we'll go ahead and run it,
do stuff two and we will pass in our inventory property.
Now, we have our inventory here.
This is tomatoes, is a million or a 1000
or however many that is.
But if I were to look at our inventory variable
that is outside, you'll see that also
was modified meaning that if you pass in an object
into a function and you modify that object,
the external object will also be updated.
So, it's not the case for Boolean, numbers and strings
but it is the case for objects and arrays,
meaning that if you modify an object or an array
that is passed into a function inside of that function,
know that you may be accidentally modifying data
that lives outside of it.
And this is a huge source of bugs
because when you pass in data as a reference,
you might be like, okay, just for this function
I'm modifying the data
but you might be unknowingly modifying data
that lives outside of that function.
So, if that's the case, you make sure that
you pass it in as a copy using one of the references
that we've done.
It may be the case that you do wanna modify external data
but just know that sometimes it's not
and sometimes that leads to bugs
and that's gonna be a bad day.
That's it for now.
Let's move into talking about maps real quick.